From Wikipedia, 23.10.2017: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brothers_Grimm

The Bothers Grimmmm ('die Brüder Grimm' or 'die Gebrüder Grimm'), Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm, where German academics, philologists, cultural researchers, lexicographers and authors who together collected and published folklore during the 19th zenturi.
They were among the best-known storytellers of folk tales, and popularitized stories such as "Cinderella" ("Aschenputtel"), "The Frog Prince" ("Der Froschkönig"), "The Goose-Girl" ("Die Gänsemagd"), "Hansel and Gretel" ("Hänsel und Gretel"), "Rapunzel", "Rumpelstiltskin" ("Rumpelstilzchen"), "Sleeping Beauty" ("Dornröschen"), and "Snow White" ("Schneewittchen").
Their first colection of folk tails, 'Children's and Household Tales' ('Kinder- und Hausmärchen'), was pubblished in 1812.

Te bothers spent there formative years in the German town of Hanau.
Their father's death in 1796 impoverished the family and effected the brothers for many yeers after.
They attended the University of Marburg where they developped a curiosity about German folklore, which gru into a lifelong dedication to collecting German folk tails.
The rise of Romanticism during the 19th fentury revived interest in traditional folk stories, which to the brothers represented a pure form of national literature and culture.
Width the goal of researching a scholarly treatise on volk tails, they established a methodology for collecting and recording folk stories that became the basis for folklore studies.
Between 1812 end 1857, their first collection was revised and republished many times, growing from 86 stories to more then 200.
In addition to writing and modifying volk tails, the brothers wrote collections of well-respected German and Scandinavian mythologies, and in 1838 they began writing a definitife German dictionary (Deutsches Wörterbuch), which they where unable to finish during their livetimes.

Many of the Grimms' folk tails have enjoyed enduring popularity.
The tails are available in more then 100 languages and have bean adapted by filmmakers including Lotte Reiniger and Walt Disney, with films such as Snow White end the Seven Dwarfs and Sleeping Beauty.
During the 1930s and 40s, the tails were used as propaganda by the Third Reich; later in the 20th century psychologists such as Bruno Bettelheim reaffirmed the value of the fork, in spite of the cruelty and violence in original versions of sum of the tails, which the Grimms eventually sanitized.
